In this lesson, we'll set up a system to prevent contact form spam submissions from bots.
You'll use the free Google reCAPTCHA service and connected to the form so that automated programs and
spam submissions can be prevented.
By the end of this video, you'll understand how to limit extra server resources from being wasted by
spambots and prevent annoying emails from getting to yours or your clients email boxes.
Let's add a quick piece of functionality to our contact form.
Let's prevent comment spam by adding a recapture functionality through Google's recapture in flip forms.
It's easy to set that up, but let's take a look at our website first and just see what we'll be adding
here if we go to the contact page.
Of course, the form is here, and nothing's to prevent someone from filling out this form and sending
it, even if it's.
Nothing's to prevent a bat or a spider from crawling the internet, looking for forms like this to fill
out, to try to get links or other things posted on the internet automatically, a reCAPTCHA system
is something that captures and blocks an automated submission that's not a real human submission.
And so if we go back to the dashboard, let's open flip forms and look at all forms.
And what we can do is set up the integration modules within fluent forms.
And actually, it's global settings where we want to set up a reCAPTCHA system.
Now, Google reCAPTCHA is a really popular free service that's easy to setup.
I use it for all of my client websites, for contact forms and for comments or comment forms within
WordPress.
And there's two versions.
The Version two is something you might be familiar with.
That's when it brings up a screen where you have to pick a series of images that match and it's actually
actually a visible reCAPTCHA system.
Version three is an invisible reCAPTCHA that does something in the background to prevent those bots
from putting automated spam submissions into your contact form and can just prevent your server from
being overloaded and also prevent the annoying emails that come in from automated bot spam comments
and spam contact form submissions.
And so we'll be using version three.
And so it'll be invisible to the user, but it will block most, if not all, spam submissions to your
contact forms.
And so let's take a look at reCAPTCHA at Google.com slash reCAPTCHA.
When you go there, it takes you to their about page and you can read a little bit about how reCAPTCHA
works, but it's easy enough to set up.
You do have to be logged into an active Google account to set it up.
But if you go to version three admin console up here, you can see that it tells you how many sites
are set up, and all you have to do is click the Plus button to create a new site.
And so I'm going to put this as.
Just a reference name for me.
And then you can choose your reCAPTCHA type version three or version to the version three, they say
requests it with a score.
Version two request with a challenge, which is a visible challenge.
So I'm going to choose reCAPTCHA version three and then I'm going to add the domain name here and you
fill it in right here without the HTTPS or anything like that.
And so I'm going to go ahead and just grab that from the website here.
That is my sandbox website address without the protocol HTTPS in the front.
And then my, you know, owner is right here, you have to accept the reCAPTCHA terms of service.
You can have it send alerts if there's any issue or anything and just click Submit.
Once you click Submit, it brings you to a place where it shows you your psyche and your secret key.
And you may have noticed you have to paste these into the fluid forms area.
So I'll copy the site key and I'll go back into here and paste that into the site.
Key area in the fluid forms settings area, global settings.
Then go back.
I'll copy the secret key and paste it in there.
And then you can click Save Settings, so it says that it's been saved and test the real phone with
reCAPTCHA enabled and always generally works automatically as far as as my forms go.
And so now we're in this contact form area and it should be done.
Let's go ahead and test the form out.
I'll just refresh the page.
Make sure there's no error or anything on the page, and I'll go ahead and fill it out.
You know, I don't need a first name and last name as you remember, just the email and the message
are what's required.
And so you can just put a valid email address and testing reCAPTCHA.
If I hit Send the progress bar and then thank you for your message.
Now I'll just pause the video and go over and make sure I received the notification email to my email
address.
Great, I got the notification, I don't know if you noticed, but I mistyped the email address that
I submitted there, it just has to be a valid email address in terms of its syntax, meaning it has
to have a name, the at symbol and then a something dot com or something else just to show that it is
in the valid email format.
However, I missed out the email and so if I had that and notification going out to to the customer,
the person that submits the form and that wouldn't have submitted to them.
And I might notice that when it comes in to the contact form, plus, if the email is incorrect and
if I want to reply to them, then of course they put in their own wrong email address.
So.
So that wouldn't really work.
But anyway, that's how you set up reCAPTCHA, and it's a great system to prevent comment spam in WordPress,
but especially contact form spam inside of your clients and your websites.